===============
About this book
===============

You're reading The Django Book, first published in December 2007 (and updated
in 2009) by Apress as The Definitive Guide to Django: Web Development Done
Right.

This Third Edition is a completely revised and updated reference for Django
1.8 Long Term Support (LTS) release. True to the original Apress title, it has
been published as the definitive guide to Django - my principle aim is to
provide a well-written, technical manual, guide and reference to Django.

To retain Adrian and Jacob's original desire for the Django Book to be
accessible as possible, the source code for the Third Edition is
freely available online at https://github.com/big-nige/djangobook.com.

This book will be periodically updated to reflect the latest information
available on the Django 1.8LTS release, as well as to incorporate your
suggestions and feedback. Please check the repository for the latest version.

Acknowledgements
================

First and foremost, I would like to thank the original authors of the Django
Book - Adrian Holovaty and Jacob Kaplan-Moss. They provided such a strong
foundation that it has really been a delight writing this new edition.

Equal first in the shout out has to be the Django community. Vibrant and
collaborative, the Django community is what really stood out to this cynical
old businessman 6 years ago when I first discovered the "new kid on the
web-framework block". It is the support of all of you that makes Django so
great.

About the Author
=================

**Nigel George** is a business systems developer specializing in the
application of Open Source technologies to solve common business problems. He
has a broad range of experience in software development - from writing
database apps for small business, to developing the backend and UI for a distributed sensor
network at the University of Newcastle, Australia.

Nigel also has over 15 years experience in technical writing for business. He
has written several training manuals and hundreds oftechnical procedures for
corporations and Australian government departments. He has been using Django
since version 0.96.

Nigel lives in Newcastle, NSW, Australia.

